.. currentmodule:: discretize

.. _0.10.0_notes:

===================================
``discretize`` 0.10.0 Release Notes
===================================

October 27, 2023

This minor release changes ``discretize`` to use a ``pyproject.toml`` file with a
``meson-python`` build backend, and does away with the old `setup.py` style. This should
allow the package to more reliably be built from the source code, properly setting the
build-requirements.

It also adds more functionality for integrating properties that are defined on cell faces
and edges for finite volume formulations (previously we only supported integrating with properties
that were defined on cell centers).

Build system
------------
``discretize`` now uses a ``pyproject.toml`` file with a ``meson-python`` backend to build
the compiled external modules (used for the ``TreeMesh``, ``SimplexMesh``, and interpolation
functions. Moving away from a ``setup.py`` file allows us to reliably control the build environment
seperate from the install environment, as the build requirements are not the same as the runtime
requirements.

We will also begin distributing many more pre-compiled wheels on pypi for Windows, MacOS, and Linux
systems from python 3.8 to 3.12. Our goal is to provide a pre-compiled wheel for every system that
scipy provides wheels for.

Tensor Mesh
------------
You can now directly index a ``TensorMesh``, and it will then return a ``TensorCell`` object.
This functionality mimics what is currently available in ``TreeMesh``s.

``Tensor Mesh`` also has a ``cell_nodes`` property that list the indices of each node of every
cell (again similar to the ``TreeMesh``).

Face Properties
---------------
All meshes now have new functionality to integrate properties that are defined on cell faces
and cell meshes within the finite volume formulation.

Style updates
-------------
The pre-commit config files for discretize have been updated to more recent versions of ``black``
and ``flake8``.


Contributors
============

* @jcapriot
* @santisoler
* @dccowan
* @munahaf

Pull requests
=============

* `#327 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/327>`__: Add black, flake8 and flake8 plugins to environment file
* `#328 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/328>`__: Use any Python 3 in pre-commit
* `#329 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/329>`__: Simplex stashing
* `#325 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/325>`__: Add new TensorCell class
* `#330 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/330>`__: Configure pyvista for doc builds
* `#331 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/331>`__: Add a noexcept clause to the wrapper function
* `#326 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/326>`__: Face props mass matrices
* `#335 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/335>`__: Pin flake8
* `#333 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/333>`__: Add cell_nodes property to TensorMesh
* `#339 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/339>`__: Update a test expression to fix a logical short circuit
* `#340 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/340>`__: Add export config for git archives
* `#338 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/338>`__: Pyproject.toml
* `#342 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/342>`__: CIbuildwheel
* `#342 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/343>`__: 0.10.0 Release Notes
