.. currentmodule:: discretize

.. _0.9.0_notes:

===================================
``discretize`` 0.9.0 Release Notes
===================================

May 31, 2023

This is a minor release with several pieces of additional functionality, and some
small bug fixes. It also stages the updates for the `1.0.0` release by changing the
``FutureWarnings`` to actual errors that describe to the user of how to update
their code. All of these errors and messages will be removed on `1.0.0`.

``CylindricalMesh``
-------------------
Cylindrical meshes have now become more flexible. They can be created without discretizing
the full azimuthal space (think a slice of pizza, or a half-cylinder), and they can
be created without starting the radial dimension at 0 (think a ring).

Cylindrical meshes now also support averaging edges to faces, and thus now allow for
boundary conditions to be imposed on PDEs involving curls.

Boundary Conditions
-------------------
The curvilinear and simplex meshes now better support boundary conditions with
improved (and corrected) handling of the inner products in the boundary condition
surface integral.

There is also now a detailed example on how to solve a nodal gradient problem with
a dirichlet boundary condition.

Tests
-----
Discretize tests now better support a ``pytest`` environment with new assertion tests.
Previous tests now use these internally. Thhe new tests are more flexible and should
give better messages when they fail.

``TreeMesh``
------------
The external ``c++`` code now uses a ``try_emplace`` function for determining if an item
already exists when constructing the mesh. This should speedup mesh refinement.


Bug Fixes
---------

- Scrolling through the ``Slicer`` object within modern notebook enviroments should now
  be working correctly.


Contributors
============

* @jcapriot
* @prisae

Pull requests
=============
* `#308 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/308>`__: Switch to try_emplace
* `#309 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/309>`__: Add stacklevel to warnings
* `#310 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/310>`__: Assert tests
* `#312 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/312>`__: Remove calls with deprecated dir argument
* `#314 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/314>`__: change name and description of average edge to face
* `#315 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/315>`__: update doc page style sheet
* `#316 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/316>`__: Curvilinear vector boundary integral
* `#317 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/317>`__: Cyl average edge
* `#318 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/318>`__: Feat/simp boundary
* `#319 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/319>`__: Add message to assertion error in tests.
* `#320 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/320>`__: Nodal boundary example
* `#321 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/321>`__: Cyl mesh generalization
* `#322 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/322>`__: Capture scroll
* `#323 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/323>`__: 0.9.0 release
* `#324 <https://github.com/simpeg/discretize/pull/324>`__: Add total_nodes method to TreeMeshes
